Part 0: The artist's favourite painting, Starry Night in Bacon, was a pivot point in art. The town is realistically depicted and the trees are recognizable as trees. The crescent moon when it's that orientation means this is before sunrise and that white object is Venus.
Part 1: Katherine: Why do we all know who Paul Revere is? Because a poem was written about him. The artist, in this case, the poet, elevated the mundane to something that forces you to reckon it with your understanding of this world.
Part 2: CNN's John Sutter says there are elements in society that advance civilization and grow the economy. Sutter: "There's hardly any growth economy in the world that isn't growing because it has been not having been touched by science or technology" Sutter has a book coming out in a month called Letters from an Astrophysicist.
Part 3: Politicians should listen to people who are scientifically literate, he says. They don't have to be scientists. He says the new pope is pretty interesting.
Part 4: When things freeze, they have to expand. Water is the opposite of that as it passes down through a pipe. Most things when they cool, they shrink as all men know.
Part 5: Water is a very special ingredient to life on earth. It's in the list of special ingredients for what make earth habitable for life. Water is less dense than non-frozen water and it's one of the rare ingredients for which that's so.
Part 6: Ice skating is a slow experiment, but it's really long. The edge of the blade is very high pressure on the ice and it's melting a bead of water. Air pressure on earth is high enough to allow the ice to melt.
Part 7: Mars is very close to the triple point of water, which is one one hundredth earth's air pressure. Water, ice and steam coexist at 32 degrees Fahrenheit. The idea of nuking the poles of Mars in order to make it warmer is just a general principle of what you want to accomplish on Mars.
Part 8: The TMT 30 meter telescope would be the largest ever by far of any kind of telescope. The proposal is for a 30m telescope largest ever on the big island of Hawaii in Monocaya.
Part 9: Astronomer: Mount Olympus is sacred in a religious sense, but it's also a pathway to knowing and understanding who and what we are in this universe. "Mount Olympus is not the only place you can't push at the kek when you're up there"
Part 10: CNN's John Sutter talks about the debate over putting a telescope on Hawaii. Sutter: "A lot of people are against it, including Jason Momoa, Aquamans against it" "They're trying to halt the expansion of civilization," Sutter says.
Part 11: CNN's John Defterios talks to a group of Australian indigenous people about their sacred land. He says they want to keep it beautiful, so they don't want climbers to climb on it. They also want to ban cars from certain stretches of the road, so that they can't hit each other.
Part 12: There are more molecules of air in every breath you take than there are breaths of water in all the atmosphere of the earth. Most of the water on earth is salt water that you can't drink. There's a limited amount that's fresh water.
Part 13: CNN's John Sutter talks about how climate modeling is so critical, yet so complicated. Sutter: Why can't we take the salt out of the water? He says we can, but it's not valuable enough yet.
Part 14: CNN's John Defterios takes a look at how solar energy could be used to generate electricity. He also explores the possibility of using tides to power a power plant. Defterio also looks at why the monsoon rains in India but not elsewhere.
Part 15: We built the roads with our taxes so that car companies could sell you a car that you drove on the road that was built for them. If they had to build all their own roads the price of gas to go in the car would have been much higher.
Part 16: Porsche has a new electric vehicle that they're about to release and it's got revolutionary technology that allows you to charge much faster. The new Tay can charge up to 80% in 20 minutes because it's double the capacity of the old Tay.
Part 17: Porsche claims its turbo charging system charges at 350, a thousand watch, kilowatts, 15 minutes in just 15 minutes. It's not clear how partial will prevent battery overheating.
Part 18: The electric car was one of the first cons, because electricity was all the rage. Tesla was talking about moving radio waves through the space that would charge things up. He had some ideas that were a little out there and out there on a level where it almost certainly would have not worked.
Part 19: If you're moving enough energy through the air to power something that itself could kill you, the energy powering through the. air could killYou unless you bring a little bit of that amount and then you store it and then use it later. The energy to transmit information is so low that it has no effect on your health.
Part 20: Stealth is the principle that if you send a signal to it, it never comes back to you. Jet matte black will absorb it and not reflect it back, but if there's enough energy coming at it it will heat up.
Part 21: CNN's John Sutter talks to a group of young men about how they think about shopping. One man says he likes the randomness of shopping because it enriches his life. Another says he doesn't like it because it denies him the chance of finding something new.
Part 22: Google has billions of data. Apple Maps doesn't have nearly the amount of data that Google has. With facial recognition, Google can track you wherever you are.
Part 23: The U.S. is moving towards a state of total monitoring on the premise that we're all better off for it. You have to show ID to walk into an office building. If you don't want to travel with a passport, you'll have to have a new federal ID.
Part 24: Social media companies are the gatekeepers of your privacy. We have the safest record now ever for commercial airlines. Airlines are regulated so that you don't die.
Part 25: Dark matter, dark energy comprise 95% of everything that's driving the universe. Dark matter has 85% of the gravity of the universe and we don't know what the hell it is. The area of our ignorance is illuminated.
Part 26: CNN's John Sutter talks to a group of religious people about their views on the age of the earth. Sutter says he was once quoted as saying Scientology should be a religion because it involves space beings. He says he's an observer, not a complainer, and can help shape the shape of the future.
Part 27: CNN's John Sutter talks with physicist David Wheeler about his new book, "Gravity" Wheeler: "We don't really know what gravity is. We know its effects and we can measure them" He says gravity is the curvature of space and time.
Part 28: When did you start losing your hair? Probably late 20s, early 30s. If you have your hair when you're 30, you'll probably have it for the rest of your life. We know far more about how and why people go bald than we do about gravity.
Part 29: CNN's John Sutter takes on the subject of gravity in a new episode of his podcast. Sutter: "I think we'll ultimately understand gravity. That's why we can land things on Mars"
Part 30: Astrophysicists think they've discovered a black hole that is sitting in this sort of nether world where it is nowhere near the supermassive black hole in the center of the galaxy. But we don't know how to make one and there's no evidence that it ate to become that massive.
Part 31: phthalmologist David Wheeler's new book, Star Talk, will be released in October. Wheeler: "It's my most heartfelt thing that I've ever done. It's a, it also has letters from people in prison, a person who just learned that they were, had terminal cancer"
