Part 0: This is a special birthday episode of sorts. Andrew Heberman, his fourth time on this podcast, talks about his fitness routine. Heberman: "I like being a mobile. I never want to be so heavy that I can't move"
Part 1: Richard Axel is a Nobel Prize winning professor at Columbia University School of Medicine. Axel: "I think I was born genetically to hug people like Costello" "I've learned to trust my gut versus the forebrain over the years"
Part 2: CNN's John Sutter sits down with neuroscientist Paul Conti for a new podcast. Conti says the subconscious is the supercomputer of the brain. Sutter: Conti's insight into the human psyche is absolutely astounding.
Part 3: CNN's John Sutter is a huge fan of Tim Armstrong's poetry. Armstrong's music embodies all the different emotions, Sutter says. Sutter: "I think ultimately what we want is to feel at peace"
Part 4: Conti: Each of our lives is a Shakespearean drama raised to a thousand degree. Conti: The drama is the different drives in different and different people.
Part 5: Bill Newsom has talked about his religious life. Newsom asks God to help remove his character defects so that he can show up better in all the roles of his life.
Part 6: CNN's John Sutter talks about the power of the subconscious. Sutter: "I think that as we grow older, we learn to cover that stuff up" "I'm not just talking about physical strength. I'm talking about intellectual strength," he says.
Part 7: CNN's John Sutter looks at the issue of overt versus covert contracts. Sutter: Covert contracts are the signature of everything bad. He says the most transacted things are the most dangerous.
Part 8: CNN's John Sutter talks about the importance of a good sleep schedule. Sutter also talks about his love of sports and how he's been able to stay fit in his 48th year of life.
Part 9: CNN's John Sutter talks with CNN iReporters about life in color, Champ Empire and relationships. Sutter: "I've injured my finger, pinky finger, injured my knee. That's not what you have a jujitsu injury" "I'm just wondering like the entirety of life on earth"
Part 10: CNN's John Sutter looks at some fascinating data on the animal kingdom. Sutter: There are instances of cuttlefish, beautiful cephalopods like octopuses, enchanting the cuddle, the shrimp.
Part 11: CNN's John Sutter talks with evolutionary psychologist John Conti. Conti: "If you don't state your explicit needs up front, you're not going to get what you want" "It takes a long time to evolve an adaptive trait," Conti says.
Part 12: CNN's John Sutter talks about the importance of friendship in a relationship. Sutter: "I think that the whole take it slow thing, I don't think is about getting to know someone slowly. I think it's about that physical piece"
Part 13: When it comes to romantic relationships, if it's not a hundred percent in you, it ain't happening. The data on position is very interesting, but let me just say a few things. Is there a way to control the gender?
Part 14: There is the idea that as fathers get older, they're more likely to have daughters as opposed to sons. If they want to ensure having a daughter, then they should do IVF and select an XX embryo. With each passing year, the egg and sperm quality degrade.
Part 15: CNN's John Sutter talks to neuroscientists about their work. Sutter: "It's all about focus in the moment. It's not about how many hours you log"
Part 16: He's struggled finishing projects that are new, like a project on Hitler in World War II. He says he's terrified of being in front of the camera, but he loves to write and teach. He's been working on a book for a while, but can't finish it yet.
Part 17: When you're with your partner, can you really focus on them and the relationship? Can you not be distracted by things that you're upset about from their past or from your past with them or their? Peace and focus are intimately related. And distraction is the enemy of peace and focus.
Part 18: Andrew Huberman: "I can't wait for you to have kids, uh, you to be a father" Alberka: "The more I could take care of them and see them happy, the better I felt" Andrew: "If you didn't go off and start a family, I didn't start, I started with a family"
